Added .NET SDK examples to serialization document (#4596)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/local-development/sdk-serialization.md

  - '/developing-applications/sdks/serialization/'
---

> An SDK for Dapr should provide serialization for two use cases. First, for API objects sent through request and response payloads. Second, for objects to be persisted. For both these use cases, a default serialization is provided. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr SDKs provide serialization for two use cases. First, for API objects sent through request and response payloads. Second, for objects to be persisted. For both of these cases, a default serialization method is provided in each language SDK.
```

| Language SDK                 | Default Serializer                                                                                         |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [.NET]({{< ref dotnet >}}) | DataContracts for remoted actors, System.Text.Json otherwise |                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [.NET]({{< ref dotnet >}}) | [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/system.text.json/) and  [DataContracts ](https://www.nuget.org/packages/LogicBuilder.DataContracts) for remoted actors, |                                               |
```

Reviewer: @WhitWaldo would it make sense to link the remoted actors text to this page? https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/sdks/dotnet/dotnet-actors/dotnet-actors-serialization/#strongly-typed-dapr-actor-client

Also lmk if i linked the wrong nuget to data contracts

Author: DataContracts don't have a NuGet package - it's included in the .NET system packages. I think it makes sense to link there, yes.

Author: I added another commit with changes here to point to the other document and point the DataContract to the .NET documentation for it (since there's no NuGet package).

| [Java]({{< ref java >}})   | [DefaultObjectSerializer](https://dapr.github.io/java-sdk/io/dapr/serializer/DefaultObjectSerializer.html) for JSON serialization|

> | [JavaScript]({{< ref js >}}) | JSON                                                                                                       | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [JavaScript]({{< ref js >}}) | [JSON](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON)                                                                                                       | 
```

Author: Do we really need a link here?

Reviewer: No but was trying for consistency :)

> | [.NET]({{< ref dotnet >}}) | [DataContracts](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/wcf/feature-details/using-data-contracts) for remoted actors, [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json) otherwise. Read more about .NET serialization [here]({{< ref dotnet-actors-serialization >}}) |                                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [.NET]({{< ref dotnet >}}) | [DataContracts](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/framework/wcf/feature-details/using-data-contracts) for remoted actors, [System.Text.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Text.Json) otherwise. Read more about .NET serialization [here]({{< ref dotnet-actors-serialization >}}) |                                               |
```

## Service invocation

{{< tabs ".NET" "Java" >}}

<!-- .NET -->
{{% codetab %}}

```csharp
    using var client = (new DaprClientBuilder()).Build();
    await client.InvokeMethodAsync("myappid", "saySomething", "My Message");
```

{{% /codetab %}}

<!-- Java -->
{{% codetab %}}

```java
    DaprClient client = (new DaprClientBuilder()).build();

>     client.invokeService("myappid", "saySomething", "My Message", HttpExtension.POST).block();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    client.invokeMethod("myappid", "saySomething", "My Message", HttpExtension.POST).block();
```

Reviewer: Looking at the newer java examples we are using `invokeMethod` not `invokeService`.

Reviewer: @cicoyle can you confirm that this is the correct example we should be giving in the docs.

Author: I didn't even look at the other languages as I assumed they were up to speed.

Reviewer 3: It is in fact `client.invokeMethod` - thx! Can we take the above code suggestion from Alice?

Author: Updated, thank you for confirming that @cicoyle and for spotting it @alicejgibbons !

```

{{% /codetab %}}

> In the example above, the app receives a `POST` request for the `saySomething` method with the request payload as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, the app `myappid` receives a `POST` request for the `saySomething` method with the request payload as 
```

## PubSub

{{< tabs ".NET" "Java" >}}

<!-- .NET -->
{{% codetab %}}

```csharp
    using var client = (new DaprClientBuilder()).Build();
    await client.PublishEventAsync("MyPubSubName", "TopicName", "My Message");
```

The event is published and the content is serialized to `byte[]` and sent to Dapr sidecar. The subscriber receives it as a [CloudEvent](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec). Cloud event defines `data` as String. The Dapr SDK also provides a built-in deserializer for `CloudEvent` object. 

```csharp
public async Task<IActionResult> HandleMessage(string message) 
{

>   //ASP.NET Core automatically deserialize the UTF-8 encoded bytes to a string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  //ASP.NET Core automatically deserializes the UTF-8 encoded bytes to a string
```

  return new Ok();
}
```

or

```csharp
app.MapPost("/TopicName", [Topic("MyPubSubName", "TopicName")] (string message) => {
  return Results.Ok();
}
```

{{% /codetab %}}

<!-- Java -->
{{% codetab %}}

```java
  DaprClient client = (new DaprClientBuilder()).build();
  client.publishEvent("TopicName", "My Message").block();
```

> The event is published and the content is serialized to `byte[]` and sent to Dapr sidecar. The subscriber receives it as a [CloudEvent](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec). Cloud event defines `data` as String. Dapr SDK also provides a built-in deserializer for `CloudEvent` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event is published and the content is serialized to `byte[]` and sent to Dapr sidecar. The subscriber receives it as a [CloudEvent](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec). Cloud event defines `data` as String. The Dapr SDK also provides a built-in deserializer for `CloudEvent` objects.
```

  }
```

{{% /codetab %}}

## Bindings

> In this case, the object is serialized to `byte[]` as well and the input binding receives the raw `byte[]` as-is and deserializes it to the expected object type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For output bindings the object is serialized to `byte[]` whereas the input binding receives the raw `byte[]` as-is and deserializes it to the expected object type.
```

{{< tabs ".NET" "Java" >}}

<!-- .NET -->
{{% codetab %}}

* Output binding:
```csharp
    using var client = (new DaprClientBuilder()).Build();
    await client.InvokeBindingAsync("sample", "My Message");

> ```

Reviewer: Input binding example? @WhitWaldo

Author: Done

      System.out.println(message);
  }
```

{{% /codetab %}}

It should print:
```
My Message
```

## Actor Method invocation

> Object serialization and deserialization for invocation of Actor's methods are same as for the service method invocation, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Object serialization and deserialization for Actor method invocation are same as for the service method invocation, 
```

the only difference is that the application does not need to deserialize the request or serialize the response since it 
is all done transparently by the SDK.

> For an Actor's methods, the SDK only supports methods with zero or one parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Actor methods, the SDK only supports methods with zero or one parameter.
```

{{< tabs ".NET" "Java" >}}

> The .NET SDK supports two different serialization types based on whether you're using the strongly-typed (DataContracts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET SDK supports two different serialization types based on whether you're using strongly-typed (DataContracts)
```

or weakly-typed (DataContracts or System.Text.JSON) actor client. [This document]({{< ref dotnet-actors-serialization >}}) 
can provide more information about the differences between each and additional considerations to keep in mind.

<!-- .NET -->
{{% codetab %}}

* Invoking an Actor's method using the weakly-typed client and System.Text.JSON:
```csharp
    var proxy = this.ProxyFactory.Create(ActorId.CreateRandom(), "DemoActor");
    await proxy.SayAsync("My message");
```

* Implementing an Actor's method:
```csharp
public Task SayAsync(string message) 
{
    Console.WriteLine(message);
    return Task.CompletedTask;
}
```

{{% /codetab %}}

<!-- Java -->

> {{% codetab %}}

Reviewer: I also don't think that this invokeActorMethod is correct anymore (unless you're using springboot?). @cicoyle can you take a peek at this actors example?

Reviewer 3: Good call out - If Whit has the bandwidth and would like to update the Java code samples that would be great, but given this PR is for .NET, Im fine with proceeding with this PR and opening follow up issues to ensure the java sdk docs are up to date. I think that would be the best path forward to ensure proper prioritization of the work and not halt this PR that is updating .Net. We should definitely update the Java SDK documentation to align more clearly with our working examples in [DemoActorClient.java](https://github.com/dapr/java-sdk/blob/master/examples/src/main/java/io/dapr/examples/actors/DemoActorClient.java) and [ActorTurnBasedConcurrencyIT.java](https://github.com/dapr/java-sdk/blob/master/sdk-tests/src/test/java/io/dapr/it/actors/ActorTurnBasedConcurrencyIT.java#L103-L109).

Author: Haha, one thing I don't have is much bandwidth. I've never used the Java SDK and it seems to be receiving quite a few updates based on the flurry of PR notifications I've been receiving.

I would prefer to merge as-is if that's acceptable. I noticed while browsing around the other day that there are several other examples across the docs that I want to update (both for .NET and add JS samples throughout), so this is going to be far from the first of these.

Reviewer 3: [I created this issue to track this](https://github.com/dapr/docs/issues/4626)
